README.md, before:

# RustFrame

[![Build and Release](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg?branch=dev)](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/actions/workflows/release.yml)
[![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/salihcantekin/RustFrame?include_prereleases&sort=semver)](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/releases)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/salihcantekin/RustFrame/total.svg)](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)



**RustFrame** is a privacy-focused, cross-platform screen region sharing tool. It lets you select any area of your screen and share only that region in video calls—without exposing your entire desktop.

**What does RustFrame do?**

- Lets you share a specific part of your screen (not the whole desktop)
- Works with all major video conferencing apps (Google Meet, Zoom, Teams, Discord)
- Supports multi-monitor setups and ultra-wide screens
- Keeps your private info hidden—share only what you want
- Fast and lightweight: minimal CPU/memory usage, instant region adjustment
- No account, no cloud, no telemetry—everything runs locally

**Key Features:**
- Pixel-perfect region selection with a draggable border
- Real-time preview window (“RustFrame - Share this window”) for sharing
- Move/resize the capture region live—even while sharing
- GPU-accelerated for smooth performance
- Customizable: border, highlights, cursor, FPS, and more
- Windows, macOS, and Linux support (Linux experimental)

See below for quick links and platform details. For more, see the [User Guide](docs/user-guide/).

---

## 🚀 Quick Links

- **[Download Latest Release](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/releases/latest)**
- **[User Guide](docs/user-guide/)** – Installation, usage, troubleshooting
- **[Quick Start](docs/user-guide/quick-start.md)** – Get started in 30 seconds
- **[Developer Guide](docs/developer/)** – Architecture, building, contributing
- **[Technical Docs](docs/technical/)** – Platform details, performance, internals
- **[Profiles & Platform Settings](docs/profiles/)** – Platform-specific configuration
- **[Changelog](docs/changelog/)** – Version history
- **[Archive](docs/archive/)** – Historical/experimental docs

---

## 🎯 Project Overview

RustFrame is designed for:
- **Precise region capture** with pixel-perfect control
- **Multi-monitor support** and auto-detection
- **Content filtering** (include/exclude apps/windows)
- **GPU-accelerated performance**
- **Customizable UI** (borders, highlights, cursor, FPS)
- **Cross-platform**: Windows, macOS, Linux (experimental)

See [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) for full documentation structure and navigation.

---

## 🧩 Profile Guide (Apps & Platforms)

RustFrame supports per-app capture profiles. On Windows, you typically need a specific profile so the window picker can see RustFrame. On macOS, the default profile works for native apps; use the shadow-cursor profile for browser-based sharing when the cursor is missing.

| App | Windows | macOS | Notes |
|-----|---------|-------|-------|
| Discord | `discord` | Default | Windows needs taskbar visibility to appear in the picker. |
| Microsoft Teams | `teams` | Default | Default macOS profile is enough. |
| OBS Studio | `obs` | Default | Works reliably on both platforms. |
| Google Meet (Web) | Not tested | `shadow-cursor` | Use shadow cursor so the browser share shows the cursor. |
| Zoom | ⚠️ Issues on Windows | Not tested | Windows picker/share can be unreliable; needs further investigation. |

Profiles live in `resources/profiles/` and can be selected from the app settings. If you see a double cursor on macOS, switch back to the default profile.

---

## 📚 Documentation Structure

All detailed documentation is under the [docs/](docs/) directory:

- **User Guide**: [docs/user-guide/](docs/user-guide/)
- **Developer Guide**: [docs/developer/](docs/developer/)
- **Technical Docs**: [docs/technical/](docs/technical/)
- **Profiles & Platform Settings**: [docs/profiles/](docs/profiles/)
- **Changelog**: [docs/changelog/](docs/changelog/)
- **Archive**: [docs/archive/](docs/archive/)

Each section contains platform-specific details and comparison tables where relevant.

---

## 🖥️ Supported Platforms (Summary)

| Platform      | Status         | Capture Method                | Rendering         |
|--------------|----------------|-------------------------------|-------------------|
| Windows 10/11| ✅ Full Support | Windows Graphics Capture (WGC)| DirectX 11 (GPU)  |
| macOS 12.3+  | ✅ Full Support | ScreenCaptureKit              | Metal (GPU)       |
| macOS 10.15+ | ✅ Supported    | CoreGraphics                  | CPU fallback      |
| Linux        | 🚧 Experimental| X11/Wayland                   | wgpu              |

For details, see [docs/technical/](docs/technical/) and [docs/user-guide/](docs/user-guide/).

---

## 🗂️ Archive & Historical Docs

Past experiments, failed approaches, and technical lessons are preserved in [docs/archive/](docs/archive/). See archive README for details.

---

## 🛠️ Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) and [docs/developer/](docs/developer/) for guidelines.

### Capture Features
- **Region Selection**: Pixel-perfect control via draggable/resizable border
- **Multi-Monitor**: Auto-detects when you drag border to different display
- **Live Adjustment**: Move/resize region while capturing (no restart needed)
- **Multiple Capture Methods**:
  - Windows: GPU (WGC) or CPU (GDI) fallback
  - macOS: ScreenCaptureKit (GPU) or CoreGraphics (CPU)
  - Linux: PipeWire (Wayland) or X11

### Interaction Features  
- **Cursor Control**: Show/hide your cursor in capture
- **Click Highlights**: Visual feedback with customizable colors and dissolve effects
- **Recording Indicator**: "REC" badge shows when capturing is active

### Share Content (Include/Exclude)
- **Modes**: Capture All, Exclude (hide selected windows/apps), Include Only (capture only selected)
- **Manual Refresh**: Load running apps/windows on demand; no auto-polling
- **Search & View**: Filter by text; switch between application or window list views
- **Selection UX**: Multi-select and add/remove; current picks visible at the top; clear-all control
- **Preview Safety**: Auto-exclude preview window toggle to avoid mirror loops
- **Platform Coverage**: macOS (CG + NSWorkspace) and Windows (EnumWindows, visible/non-cloaked, non-tool windows); Linux planned

### Customization
- **Border Styling**: Adjustable width, color, and visibility
- **Performance Tuning**: FPS control (15-144 FPS), GPU acceleration toggle
- **Capture Profiles**: Pre-configured settings for different apps (Discord, Meet, etc.)
- **Remember Region**: Automatically restore last capture area

## 🖥️ Platform Support

| Platform | Status | Capture Method | Performance |
|----------|--------|----------------|-------------|
| **Windows 10/11** | ✅ Stable | Windows Graphics Capture (WGC) | ~8-10% CPU |
| **macOS 12.3+** | ✅ Stable | ScreenCaptureKit + Metal | ~5-8% CPU |
| **macOS 10.15-12.2** | ✅ Supported | CoreGraphics | ~10-15% CPU |
| **Linux** | 🚧 Experimental | PipeWire / X11 + wgpu | Varies |

→ See [Platform-Specific Documentation](docs/technical/README.md) for technical details

## 🏗️ Architecture

RustFrame uses a modular, cross-platform architecture:

```
UI Layer (Tauri + React)
    ↓
Application Core (Rust)
    ↓
Platform Abstractions (Traits)
    ↓
Platform-Specific Implementations
```

### Key Components

- **Capture Engines** - Platform-specific screen capture (WGC, SCK, X11)
- **Window Management** - Hollow border and preview windows
- **Rendering Pipeline** - GPU or CPU rendering based on platform
- **Settings Management** - Persistent configuration with JSON

→ See [Architecture Overview](docs/developer/README.md#architecture-overview) for details

## 🛠️ Building from Source

### Prerequisites

- **Rust** (latest stable)
- **Node.js** (v18+) for UI
- **Platform Tools**:
  - Windows: Visual Studio Build Tools (MSVC)
  - macOS: Xcode Command Line Tools
  - Linux: GCC, GTK3, WebKit2GTK

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame
cd RustFrame

# Development mode
cargo tauri dev

# Release build
cargo tauri build
```

→ See [Building Guide](docs/developer/building.md) for detailed instructions

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how to get started:

1. **Read the Guides**
   - [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) - Contribution guidelines
   - [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) - Community standards
   - [Developer Guide](docs/developer/) - Technical documentation

2. **Find an Issue**
   - Check [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/issues)
   - Look for `good-first-issue` label

3. **Submit a PR**
   - Fork the repository
   - Create a feature branch
   - Make your changes
   - Submit a pull request

## 📝 Known Issues & Roadmap

### Known Issues
- **macOS**: Click highlights use CPU instead of GPU (optimization planned)
- **Linux**: PipeWire support experimental, may have compatibility issues

→ See [Known Issues](docs/developer/known-issues.md) for complete list

### Planned Features
- [ ] Zero-copy GPU texture sharing (eliminate CPU copy)
- [ ] Global hotkeys for start/stop
- [ ] Region presets (save/load favorite regions)

## 📚 Technical Resources

### Documentation
- **[Complete Documentation Index](docs/)** - All documentation
- **[GPU Optimization Details](docs/technical/gpu-optimization.md)** - Platform GPU strategies
- **[Multi-Monitor Implementation](docs/technical/multi-monitor.md)** - Display detection
- **[Color Format Handling](docs/technical/color-formats.md)** - BGRA vs RGBA

### API References
- [Windows Graphics Capture API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.graphics.capture)
- [macOS ScreenCaptureKit](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/screencapturekit)
- [Tauri Framework](https://tauri.app/)

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details

## 🔗 Links

- **Repository**: https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame
- **Releases**: https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/releases
- **Issues**: https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/issues
- **Discussions**: https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/discussions
- **Changelog**: [docs/changelog/README.md](docs/changelog/README.md)
- **Security**: [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md)

---

**Made with ❤️ using Rust + Tauri + React**

**Star ⭐ this repo if RustFrame helps you!**


### Windows Graphics APIs
- **COM Programming**: Creating and managing COM objects in Rust
- **Windows.Graphics.Capture**: Modern screen capture API
- **Direct3D 11**: GPU device creation, texture management
- **DXGI**: DirectX Graphics Infrastructure and swapchains
- **WinRT Interop**: Bridging Win32 and WinRT APIs

### Rust Systems Programming
- **Unsafe Code**: Proper use of `unsafe` with justification
- **FFI**: Calling Windows APIs through `windows` crate
- **Resource Management**: RAII, Drop implementations
- **Thread Safety**: Arc, Mutex, Send/Sync

### Graphics Programming
- **GPU Rendering**: wgpu render pipelines
- **Shader Programming**: WGSL shaders
- **Texture Management**: Staging, mapping, uploading
- **Swapchain Presentation**: Frame synchronization

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Microsoft**: Windows.Graphics.Capture API documentation
- **wgpu Community**: Excellent graphics API and examples
- **windows-rs**: Official Rust bindings for Windows

## 📄 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details.

---

**Developed by [Salih Cantekin](https://github.com/salihcantekin)**

Built with ❤️ and Rust 🦀 for the Windows platform

Commit message:

Implement locale downloads, UI updates, and docs

README.md, after:

# RustFrame

[![Build and Release](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg?branch=dev)](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/actions/workflows/release.yml)
[![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/salihcantekin/RustFrame?include_prereleases&sort=semver)](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/releases)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/salihcantekin/RustFrame/total.svg)](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)



**RustFrame** is a privacy-focused, cross-platform screen region sharing tool. It lets you select any area of your screen and share only that region in video calls—without exposing your entire desktop.

**What does RustFrame do?**

- Lets you share a specific part of your screen (not the whole desktop)
- Works with all major video conferencing apps (Google Meet, Zoom, Teams, Discord)
- Supports multi-monitor setups and ultra-wide screens
- Keeps your private info hidden—share only what you want
- Fast and lightweight: minimal CPU/memory usage, instant region adjustment
- No account, no cloud, no telemetry—everything runs locally

**Key Features:**
- Pixel-perfect region selection with a draggable border
- Real-time preview window (“RustFrame - Share this window”) for sharing
- Move/resize the capture region live—even while sharing
- GPU-accelerated for smooth performance
- Customizable: border, highlights, cursor, FPS, and more
- Multi-language UI with downloadable language packs
- Windows, macOS, and Linux support (Linux experimental)

See below for quick links and platform details. For more, see the [User Guide](docs/user-guide/).

---

## 🚀 Quick Links

- **[Download Latest Release](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/releases/latest)**
- **[User Guide](docs/user-guide/)** – Installation, usage, troubleshooting
- **[Quick Start](docs/user-guide/quick-start.md)** – Get started in 30 seconds
- **[Developer Guide](docs/developer/)** – Architecture, building, contributing
- **[Technical Docs](docs/technical/)** – Platform details, performance, internals
- **[Profiles & Platform Settings](docs/profiles/)** – Platform-specific configuration
- **[Changelog](docs/changelog/)** – Version history
- **[Archive](docs/archive/)** – Historical/experimental docs

---

## 🔒 Permissions & OS Security

RustFrame needs OS permissions to capture the screen and may be blocked by platform security defaults. If you hit permission prompts or the app will not open, check these docs:

- **macOS**: Screen Recording + Accessibility are required; Gatekeeper may require "Open Anyway." See [docs/user-guide/macos-permissions.md](docs/user-guide/macos-permissions.md).
- **Windows**: No OS permission prompts, but some capture methods may require admin-level graphics access; see [docs/user-guide/troubleshooting.md](docs/user-guide/troubleshooting.md) if capture fails.

---

## 🎯 Project Overview

RustFrame is designed for:
- **Precise region capture** with pixel-perfect control
- **Multi-monitor support** and auto-detection
- **Content filtering** (include/exclude apps/windows)
- **GPU-accelerated performance**
- **Customizable UI** (borders, highlights, cursor, FPS)
- **Cross-platform**: Windows, macOS, Linux (experimental)

See [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) for full documentation structure and navigation.

---

## 🧩 Profile Guide (Apps & Platforms)

RustFrame supports per-app capture profiles. On Windows, you typically need a specific profile so the window picker can see RustFrame. On macOS, the default profile works for native apps; use the shadow-cursor profile for browser-based sharing when the cursor is missing.

| App | Windows | macOS | Notes |
|-----|---------|-------|-------|
| Discord | `discord` | Default | Windows needs taskbar visibility to appear in the picker. |
| Microsoft Teams | `teams` | Default | Default macOS profile is enough. |
| OBS Studio | `obs` | Default | Works reliably on both platforms. |
| Google Meet (Web) | Not tested | `shadow-cursor` | Use shadow cursor so the browser share shows the cursor. |
| Zoom | ⚠️ Issues on Windows | Not tested | Windows picker/share can be unreliable; needs further investigation. |

Profiles live in `resources/profiles/` and can be selected from the app settings. If you see a double cursor on macOS, switch back to the default profile.

---

## 📚 Documentation Structure

All detailed documentation is under the [docs/](docs/) directory:

- **User Guide**: [docs/user-guide/](docs/user-guide/)
- **Developer Guide**: [docs/developer/](docs/developer/)
- **Technical Docs**: [docs/technical/](docs/technical/)
- **Profiles & Platform Settings**: [docs/profiles/](docs/profiles/)
- **Changelog**: [docs/changelog/](docs/changelog/)
- **Archive**: [docs/archive/](docs/archive/)

Each section contains platform-specific details and comparison tables where relevant.

---

## 🖥️ Supported Platforms (Summary)

| Platform      | Status         | Capture Method                | Rendering         |
|--------------|----------------|-------------------------------|-------------------|
| Windows 10/11| ✅ Full Support | Windows Graphics Capture (WGC)| DirectX 11 (GPU)  |
| macOS 12.3+  | ✅ Full Support | ScreenCaptureKit              | Metal (GPU)       |
| macOS 10.15+ | ✅ Supported    | CoreGraphics                  | CPU fallback      |
| Linux        | 🚧 Experimental| X11/Wayland                   | wgpu              |

For details, see [docs/technical/](docs/technical/) and [docs/user-guide/](docs/user-guide/).

---

## 🗂️ Archive & Historical Docs

Past experiments, failed approaches, and technical lessons are preserved in [docs/archive/](docs/archive/). See archive README for details.

---

## 🛠️ Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) and [docs/developer/](docs/developer/) for guidelines.

### Capture Features
- **Region Selection**: Pixel-perfect control via draggable/resizable border
- **Multi-Monitor**: Auto-detects when you drag border to different display
- **Live Adjustment**: Move/resize region while capturing (no restart needed)
- **Multiple Capture Methods**:
  - Windows: GPU (WGC) or CPU (GDI) fallback
  - macOS: ScreenCaptureKit (GPU) or CoreGraphics (CPU)
  - Linux: PipeWire (Wayland) or X11

### Interaction Features  
- **Cursor Control**: Show/hide your cursor in capture
- **Click Highlights**: Visual feedback with customizable colors and dissolve effects
- **Recording Indicator**: "REC" badge shows when capturing is active

### Share Content (Include/Exclude)
- **Modes**: Capture All, Exclude (hide selected windows/apps), Include Only (capture only selected)
- **Manual Refresh**: Load running apps/windows on demand; no auto-polling
- **Search & View**: Filter by text; switch between application or window list views
- **Selection UX**: Multi-select and add/remove; current picks visible at the top; clear-all control
- **Preview Safety**: Auto-exclude preview window toggle to avoid mirror loops
- **Platform Coverage**: macOS (CG + NSWorkspace) and Windows (EnumWindows, visible/non-cloaked, non-tool windows); Linux planned

### Customization
- **Border Styling**: Adjustable width, color, and visibility
- **Performance Tuning**: FPS control (15-144 FPS), GPU acceleration toggle
- **Capture Profiles**: Pre-configured settings for different apps (Discord, Meet, etc.)
- **Remember Region**: Automatically restore last capture area

## 🖥️ Platform Support

| Platform | Status | Capture Method | Performance |
|----------|--------|----------------|-------------|
| **Windows 10/11** | ✅ Stable | Windows Graphics Capture (WGC) | ~8-10% CPU |
| **macOS 12.3+** | ✅ Stable | ScreenCaptureKit + Metal | ~5-8% CPU |
| **macOS 10.15-12.2** | ✅ Supported | CoreGraphics | ~10-15% CPU |
| **Linux** | 🚧 Experimental | PipeWire / X11 + wgpu | Varies |

→ See [Platform-Specific Documentation](docs/technical/README.md) for technical details

## 🏗️ Architecture

RustFrame uses a modular, cross-platform architecture:

```
UI Layer (Tauri + React)
    ↓
Application Core (Rust)
    ↓
Platform Abstractions (Traits)
    ↓
Platform-Specific Implementations
```

### Key Components

- **Capture Engines** - Platform-specific screen capture (WGC, SCK, X11)
- **Window Management** - Hollow border and preview windows
- **Rendering Pipeline** - GPU or CPU rendering based on platform
- **Settings Management** - Persistent configuration with JSON

→ See [Architecture Overview](docs/developer/README.md#architecture-overview) for details

## 🛠️ Building from Source

### Prerequisites

- **Rust** (latest stable)
- **Node.js** (v18+) for UI
- **Platform Tools**:
  - Windows: Visual Studio Build Tools (MSVC)
  - macOS: Xcode Command Line Tools
  - Linux: GCC, GTK3, WebKit2GTK

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame
cd RustFrame

# Development mode
cargo tauri dev

# Release build
cargo tauri build
```

→ See [Building Guide](docs/developer/building.md) for detailed instructions

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how to get started:

1. **Read the Guides**
   - [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) - Contribution guidelines
   - [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) - Community standards
   - [Developer Guide](docs/developer/) - Technical documentation

2. **Find an Issue**
   - Check [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/issues)
   - Look for `good-first-issue` label

3. **Submit a PR**
   - Fork the repository
   - Create a feature branch
   - Make your changes
   - Submit a pull request

## 📝 Known Issues & Roadmap

### Known Issues
- **macOS**: Click highlights use CPU instead of GPU (optimization planned)
- **Linux**: PipeWire support experimental, may have compatibility issues

→ See [Known Issues](docs/developer/known-issues.md) for complete list

### Planned Features
- [ ] Zero-copy GPU texture sharing (eliminate CPU copy)
- [ ] Global hotkeys for start/stop
- [ ] Region presets (save/load favorite regions)

## 📚 Technical Resources

### Documentation
- **[Complete Documentation Index](docs/)** - All documentation
- **[GPU Optimization Details](docs/technical/gpu-optimization.md)** - Platform GPU strategies
- **[Multi-Monitor Implementation](docs/technical/multi-monitor.md)** - Display detection
- **[Color Format Handling](docs/technical/color-formats.md)** - BGRA vs RGBA

### API References
- [Windows Graphics Capture API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.graphics.capture)
- [macOS ScreenCaptureKit](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/screencapturekit)
- [Tauri Framework](https://tauri.app/)

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details

## 🔗 Links

- **Repository**: https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame
- **Releases**: https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/releases
- **Issues**: https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/issues
- **Discussions**: https://github.com/salihcantekin/RustFrame/discussions
- **Changelog**: [docs/changelog/README.md](docs/changelog/README.md)
- **Security**: [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md)

---

**Made with ❤️ using Rust + Tauri + React**

**Star ⭐ this repo if RustFrame helps you!**


### Windows Graphics APIs
- **COM Programming**: Creating and managing COM objects in Rust
- **Windows.Graphics.Capture**: Modern screen capture API
- **Direct3D 11**: GPU device creation, texture management
- **DXGI**: DirectX Graphics Infrastructure and swapchains
- **WinRT Interop**: Bridging Win32 and WinRT APIs

### Rust Systems Programming
- **Unsafe Code**: Proper use of `unsafe` with justification
- **FFI**: Calling Windows APIs through `windows` crate
- **Resource Management**: RAII, Drop implementations
- **Thread Safety**: Arc, Mutex, Send/Sync

### Graphics Programming
- **GPU Rendering**: wgpu render pipelines
- **Shader Programming**: WGSL shaders
- **Texture Management**: Staging, mapping, uploading
- **Swapchain Presentation**: Frame synchronization

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Microsoft**: Windows.Graphics.Capture API documentation
- **wgpu Community**: Excellent graphics API and examples
- **windows-rs**: Official Rust bindings for Windows

## 📄 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details.

---

**Developed by [Salih Cantekin](https://github.com/salihcantekin)**

Built with ❤️ and Rust 🦀 for the Windows platform
